PLAIN LANGUAGE STANDARD APARTMENT LEASE

THIS LEASE made 10/12/2021 Between  House LLC as landlord whose address is:
331 Rutledge St. #208 Brooklyn, NY 11211
and as Tenant. The Landlord hereby leases to the Tenant, Apartment
to be used and occupied only as a strictly private dwelling apartment by the Tenant for a term of ___ years
beginning 10/15/2021 and ending 10/31/2022, at a monthly rental of 2,500.00 to be paid at the office of the
Landlord each month in advance on the first day of each month, without further prior notice or demand.
(For the purpose of this lease the word Landlord shall mean: Landlord, Court Appointed Receiver,
Mortgagee in Possession, or owner of a lease to the property.)
CAPTIONS: Captions are for convenience only and in the event of a conflict between a caption and the
text, the text shall control.
1st OCCUPANCY: a) The apartment shall be occupied by the Tenant and the Tenant's immediate family,
consisting of #____ persons. It is hereby represented that the following persons shall be occupying the
apartment as their primary residence with the Tenant:
Other Occupants:_________________________
Other Occupants:_________________________
b) Tenant promises to inform the Landlord if any family member moves into the apartment with Tenant,
when he moves in and the circumstances of his occupancy.
c) Tenant understands that Landlord is relying on Tenant's representation to enter into the lease.
2nd Tenent acknowledges that no security deposit has been paid at the execution of this lease and no value
has been recived by the landlord in liu of a security deposit, and landlord acknowledges that no security
deposit is or will become due during the term of this lease and/or any renewal extension hereof.
Landlord ackowledges that tenent has paid the equivalent of one month's rent to the Real Estate Broker and
agrees to reimburse Tenant of said payment at the time of Tenent's vacatur and surrender of the leased
premises and the end of the term set forth herein, provided Tenent, at such time of vacatur and surrender,
tenders the leased premises and its keys to the Landlord in broom clean condition, free and clear of any and
all occupants and/or occupancies, in the same condition as was deliverd to the Tenent at move-in, subject
only to reasonable wear and tear. Any violation of this provision will result in a reasonable deduction , in
the Lanlord's sole discretion, from the reimbursement monies of the value and/or cost of such violation.
''Value and/or cost'' shall include, but not be limited to, any amount of rent due and outstanding at the time
of vacatur and surrender of the leased premises and continuing up to such time as the leased premises are
delivered free and clear of all occupanciesm and the reasonable costs and legal fees incurred in recovering
possesssion of the premises should the premises not ber deliverd free and clear of occupancies.
3rd TENANT HAS INSPECTED APARTMENT: The Tenant has examined the apartment. No
representation has been made by the Landlord which is not in this lease. The apartment has been adequately
painted and no repairs are needed, other than those specifically stated in this lease.

10/12/21, 11:19 AM 3756

https://gardenmanagement.remotelandlord.com/ChooseTemplate.aspx?leaseid=3756 2/6
4th TAKING POSSESSION: The Landlord shall not be liable for failure to give possession of the
apartment on the beginning date of this lease if the premises are not ready for occupancy, or if the prior
tenant has not vacated the apartment, or for any other reason. In such event, the rent shall not begin until
possession is given or is available, but the ending date of this lease shall not be extended.
5th MODIFICATION: None of the terms or conditions of this lease may be changed except in writing and
signed by both Landlord and Tenant
6th NOTICES: All notices to Landlord shall be sent to the Landlord at the address indicated, by certified
mail, Return Receipt Requested or at such other address as designated by Landlord. All notices to tenant
shall be sent to the Tenant at the apartment which is the subject of this lease, by regular mail except that any
notice alleging failure to comply with any terms of this lease or any notice of termination of the lease
and/or tenancy shall be sent by certified mail. Notices shall be effective when mailed.
7th SUBLETTING AND ASSIGNMENT: The Tenant shall not sublet the apartment, in whole or in part,
nor assign this lease without the written consent of the Landlord, nor permit anyone not specifically
indicated in this lease to occupy the apartment. The Landlord may withhold consent to assignment without
cause.
8th FAILURE TO PAY RENT TIMELY: Rent is due by the first of each month. For purposes of this
paragraph, payment after the 7th of each month shall be considered a ‘Late Payment’. Late Payments more
than three (3) times in any twelve month period shall be deemed to be a failure to comply with a substantial
obligation of this lease and be grounds for the termination of this lease and eviction of the Tenant by the
Landlord. ___________ initial here
9th LATE CHARGE: It is agreed that due to administrative inconvenience and costs incurred due to late
payment of rent that Tenants agree to pay the sum of $75.00 per month in any month in which the rent is
tendered after the 7th day of that month. It is further agreed, that although, Landlord is accepting $75.00 as
a late charge that the Landlord is not stopped from commencing any action or proceeding with regard to
Tenant's failure to pay rent timely.
This paragraph is not a waiver of the Landlord's right to collect or demand rent when it is due.
10th DISHONORED CHECK FEE: If you pay your rent by check and your check is dishonored or not paid
by the bank on which the check was drawn for any reason, you will be responsible to pay the Landlord a
‘Dishonored Check Fee’ of $25.00 This fee is additional rent and may be the subject of a non-payment
summary proceeding.
11th FIRE, DESTRUCTION: The Tenant shall give immediate notice to the Landlord in case of fire. The
Landlord shall repair the premises as soon as is reasonably possible subject to any delays due to adjustment
of insurance claims or any cause not under the Landlord's control. There shall be no abatement for rent. If
the premises are damaged where the Landlord feels that the apartment is beyond repair within a reasonable
period of time, the term of this lease shall end and the Tenant must vacate the apartment. if the fire or
casualty was caused by the Tenant's actions, the costs of repairs shall be repaid to the Landlord by the
Tenant as additional rent
12th CARE OF PREMISES: Tenant shall comply with all rules and regulations of all City Agencies and all
City Ordinances relating to this property. The Tenant shall make all repairs required to the apartment,
including ranges and refrigerators, whenever damage is a result of the misuse or negligence of the Tenant or
any occupant or visitor. The Tenant shall reimburse the Landlord as additional rent, the cost of repairing
any damage or for the removal of any violations caused by the Tenant or any occupant or visitor. This
paragraph shall also include the public areas of the building.
13th FACILITIES: Storeroom and laundry facilities in the building and Cable TV & Master Antenna may
be provided by the Landlord at the option of the Landlord. Landlord may discontinue the facilities at

10/12/21, 11:19 AM 3756

https://gardenmanagement.remotelandlord.com/ChooseTemplate.aspx?leaseid=3756 3/6
anytime and shall not be liable for any damage, injury or loss from the use of these areas.
14th ADVERTISEMENT: The Tenant shall not place any sign or projection in or out of the windows or on
the building.
15th ACCESS: The Landlord, its Agents, employees and mechanics shall be permitted to enter the
apartment at all reasonable hours for the purposes of making repairs, showing the apartment to prospective
tenants, mortgagees, or buyers or for the inspection of the apartment In the event of an emergency which
affects the safety of the tenants in the building or which may cause damage to the building the Landlord
may enter the premises without prior notice to the Tenant.
16th APARTMENT NOT RENT STABILIZED: The Tenant has been informed that this apartment is not
subject to the Rent Stabilization Laws. References if any to the Rent Stabilization Laws are not intended to
apply to this lease.
Neither party has any obligation to renew this lease upon expiration.
17th DEFAULT: If the Tenant is dispossessed by legal action the Landlord may enter and take possession of
the premises without being liable to prosecution for this action, and may re-rent the apartment. The Tenant

will be liable to the Landlord for any and all expenses related to the entering, repairing, redecorating and re-
renting. In the event the Tenant does not comply with any obligations of this lease or fails to comply with

rules or regulations in this lease or creates a nuisance or engages in conduct detrimental to the safety of
other tenants or intentionally damages the property, or disturbing to other tenants, then the Landlord may
terminate the tenancy and lease on seven days written notice to the Tenant. Notwithstanding the foregoing,

the Landlord shall not be required to give any preliminary notice to the Tenant prior to initiating a non-
payment summary proceeding except such notice or notices as may be required by law. Any DEMAND for

rent may be made orally or in writing at the option of the Landlord.
18th PAYMENT OF LANDLORD'S EXPENSES: Any expense incurred by landlord in connection with
any performance by it for the account of Tenant and all costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys'
fees (whether or not legal proceedings are instituted), involved in collecting rents or enforcing the
obligations of Tenant under this lease, including the cost and expense of instituting and prosecuting legal
proceedings or recovering possession of the premises after default by Tenant or upon expiration or sooner
termination of this lease, shall be due and payable by Tenant, on demand, as Additional Rent. In the event
the Tenant does not defend any legal proceeding brought by the Landlord and there is no resolution of the
matter by a Court, then in such event the legal fees incurred by the Landlord will become Additional Rent
and may be recovered in any subsequent legal proceeding involving the Landlord and Tenant
19th SUBORDINATION: Any mortgage which is now in effect or which may be made after this lease or
any lease on the land or building of which this apartment is part, of any extensions, modifications,
consolidations or replacements of any lease or mortgages provided for in this provision shall have priority
over this lease. The Tenant agrees to sign any acknowledgment of this clause and hereby appoints the
Landlord the Attorney-In-Fact for the Tenant to execute and deliver such acknowledgment on behalf of the
Tenant This lease shall be ‘subordinate’ to any lease or financing as provided for in this paragraph.
20th SERVICES: The Landlord will provide the following services provided that the Tenant is not in
default under the terms of this lease:
a) Cold water as required by law, tenant is responsible to pay all utilities.
b) No elevator service will be provided.
The Landlord shall have the right to change operator elevators to self-service elevators and may dispense
with the services of doormen, elevator operators and attendants which shall in no way affect or impair the

10/12/21, 11:19 AM 3756

https://gardenmanagement.remotelandlord.com/ChooseTemplate.aspx?leaseid=3756 4/6
obligations of the Landlord or hold the Landlord liable for prosecution for any damage, and the Tenant shall
not receive any abatement in rent if any change is made.
c) The Landlord shall not be liable for the failure to supply any services by reasons of strikes, lockouts,
accidents, delays in securing supplies or labor, or by reason of other causes beyond the control of the
Landlord, and the Tenant shall not receive any allowance or abatement in rent.
21st NO TRIAL BY JURY It is agreed by the Landlord and the Tenant that the right to trial by jury is
hereby waived in any action proceeding brought by any party to the lease against the other or any matter
whatsoever, arising out of or in any way connected with this lease and/or any claim of injury or damage,
unless such waiver is contrary to law. THE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY IS AN IMPORTANT RIGHT
OF THE TENANT AND THE TENANT IS AGREEING NOT TO DEMAND A TRIAL BY JURY.
22nd NO RIGHT OF RE-ENTRY The Tenant waives: (1) the right to go back into the apartment by any
existing law or under any future law after a final order or judgment in any action has been signed or after
the Tenant shall have been removed from the leased apartment: (2) the right to bring proceedings of a
counterclaim on any action brought by the Landlord under this lease but shall be required to bring an
independent action on any counterclaim or offset; and (3) the right to put in a defense of giving up the
apartment or constructive eviction in any action started for the recovery of rent or for a default in this lease.
23rd CONSTRUCTIVE EVICTION: No act of constructive eviction shall end this lease or release the
Tenant from liability to pay rent or give the Tenant the right to claim any damages from the Landlord. The
Landlord shall not be required to stop nuisances or noise created by other Tenants residing at the premises.
Any disturbing acts of other Tenants shall not be constructive eviction and shall in no way affect the
obligations of the Tenant under this lease.
24th ABANDONMENT: The removal of all or a substantial part of the Tenant's furniture from the
apartment or any indications by other means that the apartment has been vacated shall be deemed an
abandonment by the Tenant. The Landlord may then reenter and take possession of the apartment, repair
and redecorate it for the purpose of re-renting whether or not the Tenant has surrendered the keys. Such
taking by the Landlord shall not be deemed to relieve the Tenant from liability to pay the rent. The Tenant
releases the Landlord from any and all claims for damages by reason of such re-entry.
25th WINDOW CLEANING: The Tenant shall not allow any windows to be cleaned from the outside.
26th CONDEMNATION: If the premises shall be taken or condemned, in whole or in part, by any
authority, then the term of this lease shall be terminated from the date when possession shall be taken. The
Tenant shall not be entitled to any portion of any money received under this clause, however, the rent shall
be apportioned.
27th RULES AND REGULATIONS: a) The Tenant shall not install a waterbed, laundry machine,
dishwasher, air conditioner, refrigerator, sink, kitchen cabinets, stove or other mechanical equipment or an
antenna, in or outside the apartment, without the written consent of the Landlord. If Tenant is permitted and
does install a window air conditioner, the Landlord is entitled to receive a rent increase. The rent increase is
payable to the Landlord on the first day of the month following installation, b) the Tenant shall not apply
wallpaper or wall covering to the walls or ceilings. When the Tenant vacates the apartment, it shall be left
painted in the same off-white color as when rented. The Tenant may not paste any carpet, tile or linoleum to
the floors, c) the Tenant shall not have any dog, cat or other animal on the premises unless permitted in
writing by the Landlord. In no event shall any dog, cat or other animal be permitted in any elevator or in
any public portion of the building unless carried or on a leash, d) the sidewalks, entrances, passages, courts,
elevators, vestibules, stairways or halls must not be blocked by any Tenant or used for any purpose other
than as a means of passing to and from the premises. No garbage cans, carriages, supplies or other articles
shall be placed in the halls or on the staircase landings. Nothing shall be hung from the windows or
balconies or placed upon the window sills or fire-escapes. No rugs or mops shall be shaken from any
window on the premises. Fire escapes shall not be obstructed in any manner, e) garbage and refuse must be

10/12/21, 11:19 AM 3756

https://gardenmanagement.remotelandlord.com/ChooseTemplate.aspx?leaseid=3756 5/6
brought to the basement or elsewhere in such a manner that the Landlord may direct. No dumbwaiter
service is provided, f) the Tenant must provide a key to any and all locks to the Tenant's apartment to the
Landlord or his agent, if requested, and the Landlord must pay to the Tenant the reasonable cost of the keys.
Tenant shall not install a double-keyed cylinder on any lock, g) no Tenant shall make or permit to be made
disturbing noises in he building or permit to be done anything that will interfere with the rights, comforts or
convenience of the other Tenants. No tenant shall conduct or permit to be conducted vocal or instrumental
instructions, h) all deliveries must be made through the basement of the building, i) Tenant shall not install
any gate on any window unless the gate shall be the type approved by the law, j) Tenant shall make no
alterations to the apartment, structural or otherwise. K. Tenant shall cover 90% of the apartment floors with
wall to wall carpeting or rugs.
28th NO PETS: Dogs, Cats or other animals shall not be harbored in the apartment or building. Failure to
comply with this legal provision is sufficient reason for termination of the tenancy and lease.
29th SMOKE ALARMS: The Tenant knows that the apartment being rented has a smoke alarm in proper
working order and that it is the Tenant's responsibility to maintain the smoke alarm including replacing the
battery when necessary and replacing the smoke alarm if it is stolen, removed, or broken during the
Tenant's occupancy.
30th NO WAIVER: The failure of the Landlord to insist, at any time, upon strict performance of any clause
in this lease shall not be construed as a waiver of the Landlord's rights. No waiver by the Landlord of any
provision of this lease can be made unless in writing by the Landlord. Acceptance of rent by the Landlord
with knowledge of a breach of any condition or term of this lease is not a waiver of the breach.
31st VACANCY BEFORE END OF LEASE: In the event the Tenant vacates the apartment prior to the
expiration of the lease, there will be no security refunded to Tenant.
32nd WINDOW GUARDS: Tenant hereby agrees to notify the landlord if any child age 10 or under
occupies thisapartment so that Landlord may install window guards in each window of the apartment in
accordance with the law.
33rd LEAD BASED PAINT: Housing built before 1978 may contain lead-based paint. Lead from paint,
paint chips and dust can pose health hazards if not taken care of properly. Lead exposure is especially
harmful to young children and pregnant woman. Before renting pre- 1978 housing, landlords must disclose
the presentce of known lead-based paint and lead-based paint hazards in the dwelling. Tenants must also
receive a Federally approved pamphlet on lead poisoning prevention. The landlord has no knowledge of
lead-based paint paint or lead based paint hazards in the housing. The landlord has no reports or records
pertaining to lead-based paint hazards in the housing. The parties to his lease have reviewed the information
pertaining to lead and certify to the best of their knowledge, that the information provided by the signatory
is true and accurate. The tenant/lessee also acknowledges receipt of the pamphlet, Protect your Family from
Lead in the Home.
34th NO COUNTERCLAIMS: If the Landlord commences any legal proceeding or action against the
Tenant, the Tenant shall NOT make any counterclaims in such action or proceeding unless it is based on a
claim that Landlord has not properly maintained the building or the condition of your apartment.
35th Each of the undersigned Tenants understands that they are renting a single apartment as roommates
and that they are not renting individual rooms. The certificate of occupancy does not permit individual
rooms within the apartment to be rented separately. In addition, each Tenant is responsible for payment of
the full rent (commonly referred to as joint and several liability) in the event one or more of the roommates
fails to pay his/her share as agreed by and between the Tenants or if one of the Tenants named in the lease
moves out. Tenants will be permitted to sublet to additional roommates in the event one or more of the
named Tenants moves out but such subletting shall be limited to the total number of tenants named in the
original lease or such additional amount but not more than the maximum number of tenants as is allowed

10/12/21, 11:19 AM 3756

https://gardenmanagement.remotelandlord.com/ChooseTemplate.aspx?leaseid=3756 6/6
by applicable law, in addition Tenants will need consent of Landlord to approve any added roommates
which shall not be unreasonably withheld.

IF ANY PART OF THIS LEASE SHALL BE DETERMINED TO BE UNLAWFUL, IT SHALL BE OF
NO EFFECT ON THE BALANCE OF THIS LEASE WHICH SHALL READ AS IF THE UNLAWFUL
PORTION IS NO LONGER PART OF THIS LEASE.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, LANDLORD AND TENANT HAVE RESPECTIVELY SIGNED THE
LEASE.

THIS IS A LEGAL DUCUMENT BE SURE TO UNDERSTAND IT BEFORE SIGNING.
